docs/usage/defining-patches.md, before:

---
title: Defining Patches
weight: 20
---

## Format

You can describe patches to the plugin in one of two ways: the compact format or the expanded format.

{{< callout title="Local files are supported too!" >}}
In any of the following examples, you can specify a path relative to the root of your project instead of a web address.
{{< /callout >}}

{{< warning title="Avoid using patches autogenerated by PR/MR URLs" >}}
The contents of these patches can change by pushing more commits to a pull request or merge request. A malicious user
could abuse this behavior to cause you to deploy code that you didn't mean to deploy. If you must use a PR/MR as the
basis for a patch, download the patch, include it in your project, and apply the patch using the local path instead.
{{< /warning >}}

### Compact format

```json
{
    [...],
    "extra": {
        "patches": {
            "the/project": {
                "This is the description of the patch": "https://www.example.com/path/to/file.patch",
                "This is another patch": "https://www.example.com/different/path/to/file.patch"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

This is the format that you may be familiar with from previous versions of Composer Patches. In your `composer.json`, this is an object with descriptions as keys and patch URLs for values. While this format is more convenient, it has some shortcomings - namely that only a description and URL can be specified. If this works for you/your project, you can keep using this format.

### Expanded format

```json
{
    [...],
    "extra": {
        "patches": {
            "the/project": [
                {
                    "description": "This is the description of the patch",
                    "url": "https://www.example.com/path/to/file.patch"
                },
                {
                    "description": "This is another patch",
                    "url": "https://www.example.com/different/path/to/file.patch"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

Internally, the plugin uses the expanded format for _all_ patches. Similar to the compact format, the only required fields in the expanded format are `description` and `url`. However, in the expanded format, you can specify several other fields:

```json
{
    [...],
    "extra": {
        "patches": {
            "the/project": [
                {
                    "description": "This is the description of the patch",
                    "url": "https://www.example.com/path/to/file.patch",
                    "sha256": "6f024c51ca5d0b6568919e134353aaf1398ff090c92f6173f5ce0315fa266b93",
                    "depth": 2,
                    "extra": {},
                },
                {
                    "description": "This is another patch",
                    "url": "https://www.example.com/different/path/to/file.patch",
                    "sha256": "795a84197ee01b9d50b40889bc5689e930a8839db3d43010e887ddeee643ccdc",
                    "depth": 3,
                    "extra": {
                        "issue-tracker-url": "https://jira.ecorp.com/issues/SM-519"
                    }
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

`sha256` can either be specified in your patch definition as above or the sha256 of a patch file will be calculated and written to your `patches.lock.json` file as part of installation.

`depth` can be specified on a per-patch basis. If specified, this value overrides any other defaults. If not specified, the first available depth out of the following will be used:

1. A package-specific depth set in [`package-depths`]({{< relref "configuration.md#package-depths" >}})
2. Any package-specific depth override set globally in the plugin (see `cweagans\Composer\Util::getDefaultPackagePatchDepth()` for details.)
3. The global [`default-patch-depth`]({{< relref "configuration.md#default-patch-depth" >}})

`extra` is primarily a place for developers to store extra data related to a patch, but if you just need a place to put some extra data about a patch, `extra` is a good place for it. No validation is performed on the contents of `extra`. The [Freeform patcher]({{< relref "freeform-patcher.md" >}}) stores data here.


## Locations

Patches can be defined in multiple places. With the default configuration, you can define plugins in either `composer.json` or a `patches.json` file.

### `composer.json`

As in previous versions of Composer Patches, you can store patch definitions in your root `composer.json` like so:

```json
{
    [...],
    "extra": {
        "patches": {
            // your patch definitions here
        }
    }
}
```
This approach works for many teams, but you should consider moving your patch definitions to a separate `patches.json`. Doing so will mean that you don't have to update `composer.lock` every time you change a patch. Because patch data is locked in `patches.lock.json`, moving the data out of `composer.json` has little downside and can improve your workflow substantially.

### Patches file

If you're defining patches in `patches.json` (or some other separate patches file), the same formats can be used. Rather than nesting patch definitions in the `extra` key in `composer.json`, the plugin expects patches to be defined in a root-level `patches` key like so:

```json
{
    "patches": {
        // your patch definitions here
    }
}
```

### Dependencies

Packages required by your project can define patches as well. They can do so by defining patches in their root `composer.json` file. Defining patches in a separate `patches.json` in a dependency is currently unsupported.

{{< callout title="Patch paths are always relative to the root of your project" >}}
Patches defined by a dependency should always use a publicly accessible URL, rather than a local file path. Composer Patches _will not_ attempt to modify file paths so that the patch file can be found within the installed location of a dependency.
{{< /callout >}}


## Duplicate patches

If the same patch is defined in multiple places, the first one added to the patch collection "wins". Subsequent definitions of the same patch will be ignored without emitting an error. The criteria used for determining whether two patches are the same are:

* They have the same URL
* They have the same sha256 hash

## `patches.lock.json`

If `patches.lock.json` does not exist the first time you run `composer install` with this plugin enabled, one will be created for you. Generally, you shouldn't need to do anything with this file: commit it to your project repository alongside your `composer.json` and `composer.lock`, and commit any changes when you change your patch definitions.

This file is similar to `composer.lock` in that it includes a `_hash` and the expanded definition for all patches in your project. When `patches.lock.json` exists, patches will be installed from the locked definitions in this file (_instead_ of using the definitions in `composer.json` or elsewhere).

Commit message:

Dependency patch resolution: use patches file from dependency instead of root composer if configured

docs/usage/defining-patches.md, after:

---
title: Defining Patches
weight: 20
---

## Format

You can describe patches to the plugin in one of two ways: the compact format or the expanded format.

{{< callout title="Local files are supported too!" >}}
In any of the following examples, you can specify a path relative to the root of your project instead of a web address.
{{< /callout >}}

{{< warning title="Avoid using patches autogenerated by PR/MR URLs" >}}
The contents of these patches can change by pushing more commits to a pull request or merge request. A malicious user
could abuse this behavior to cause you to deploy code that you didn't mean to deploy. If you must use a PR/MR as the
basis for a patch, download the patch, include it in your project, and apply the patch using the local path instead.
{{< /warning >}}

### Compact format

```json
{
    [...],
    "extra": {
        "patches": {
            "the/project": {
                "This is the description of the patch": "https://www.example.com/path/to/file.patch",
                "This is another patch": "https://www.example.com/different/path/to/file.patch"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

This is the format that you may be familiar with from previous versions of Composer Patches. In your `composer.json`, this is an object with descriptions as keys and patch URLs for values. While this format is more convenient, it has some shortcomings - namely that only a description and URL can be specified. If this works for you/your project, you can keep using this format.

### Expanded format

```json
{
    [...],
    "extra": {
        "patches": {
            "the/project": [
                {
                    "description": "This is the description of the patch",
                    "url": "https://www.example.com/path/to/file.patch"
                },
                {
                    "description": "This is another patch",
                    "url": "https://www.example.com/different/path/to/file.patch"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

Internally, the plugin uses the expanded format for _all_ patches. Similar to the compact format, the only required fields in the expanded format are `description` and `url`. However, in the expanded format, you can specify several other fields:

```json
{
    [...],
    "extra": {
        "patches": {
            "the/project": [
                {
                    "description": "This is the description of the patch",
                    "url": "https://www.example.com/path/to/file.patch",
                    "sha256": "6f024c51ca5d0b6568919e134353aaf1398ff090c92f6173f5ce0315fa266b93",
                    "depth": 2,
                    "extra": {},
                },
                {
                    "description": "This is another patch",
                    "url": "https://www.example.com/different/path/to/file.patch",
                    "sha256": "795a84197ee01b9d50b40889bc5689e930a8839db3d43010e887ddeee643ccdc",
                    "depth": 3,
                    "extra": {
                        "issue-tracker-url": "https://jira.ecorp.com/issues/SM-519"
                    }
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

`sha256` can either be specified in your patch definition as above or the sha256 of a patch file will be calculated and written to your `patches.lock.json` file as part of installation.

`depth` can be specified on a per-patch basis. If specified, this value overrides any other defaults. If not specified, the first available depth out of the following will be used:

1. A package-specific depth set in [`package-depths`]({{< relref "configuration.md#package-depths" >}})
2. Any package-specific depth override set globally in the plugin (see `cweagans\Composer\Util::getDefaultPackagePatchDepth()` for details.)
3. The global [`default-patch-depth`]({{< relref "configuration.md#default-patch-depth" >}})

`extra` is primarily a place for developers to store extra data related to a patch, but if you just need a place to put some extra data about a patch, `extra` is a good place for it. No validation is performed on the contents of `extra`. The [Freeform patcher]({{< relref "freeform-patcher.md" >}}) stores data here.


## Locations

Patches can be defined in multiple places. With the default configuration, you can define plugins in either `composer.json` or a `patches.json` file.

### `composer.json`

As in previous versions of Composer Patches, you can store patch definitions in your root `composer.json` like so:

```json
{
    [...],
    "extra": {
        "patches": {
            // your patch definitions here
        }
    }
}
```
This approach works for many teams, but you should consider moving your patch definitions to a separate `patches.json`. Doing so will mean that you don't have to update `composer.lock` every time you change a patch. Because patch data is locked in `patches.lock.json`, moving the data out of `composer.json` has little downside and can improve your workflow substantially.

### Patches file

If you're defining patches in `patches.json` (or some other separate patches file), the same formats can be used. Rather than nesting patch definitions in the `extra` key in `composer.json`, the plugin expects patches to be defined in a root-level `patches` key like so:

```json
{
    "patches": {
        // your patch definitions here
    }
}
```

### Dependencies

Packages required by your project can define patches as well. They can do so by defining patches in their root `composer.json` file. Defining patches in a separate `patches.json` in a dependency is currently unsupported.

When a dependency defines a patch, the path can be a publicly accessible URL or a local file path.

If a local path is provided, Composer Patches will first attempt to resolve the path relative to the dependency's root (i.e., the directory containing its composer.json).

If the patch file is not found there, it will fall back to checking for the file relative to the root of your main project.


## Duplicate patches

If the same patch is defined in multiple places, the first one added to the patch collection "wins". Subsequent definitions of the same patch will be ignored without emitting an error. The criteria used for determining whether two patches are the same are:

* They have the same URL
* They have the same sha256 hash

## `patches.lock.json`

If `patches.lock.json` does not exist the first time you run `composer install` with this plugin enabled, one will be created for you. Generally, you shouldn't need to do anything with this file: commit it to your project repository alongside your `composer.json` and `composer.lock`, and commit any changes when you change your patch definitions.

This file is similar to `composer.lock` in that it includes a `_hash` and the expanded definition for all patches in your project. When `patches.lock.json` exists, patches will be installed from the locked definitions in this file (_instead_ of using the definitions in `composer.json` or elsewhere).
